JIRA Notes

----JIRA software, cloud version

Backlog stores bugs and issue types inside of a project. 

All projects have a name and a key, we can set the type to an AGILE workflow
such as Scrum.

Scrum issue types, story, bug, epic,task, subtask

We customize the issue types on the screens menu, if we don't need them.

Workflows - they allow you to see how a status affects another status.

Todo -> In progress -> Done

We can assign permissions to various team members so more people can manage the
project.

(This seems a lot like a more in depth version of Trello)

Managing Work Items

Epics are large stories witha  distinct start and end, multiple sprints

Stories bugs and tasks are all  the same level

Stories focus on users, user stories

as a [user] I would like [something] so that I can [benefit]

Bugs are a defect or problem that should be prioritized over new stuff

Subttasks are multiple tasks within a story or a bug.

You drag backlog items into an epic. 

E - edit, A - Assign (shortcuts)

Attributes - assignee, attachment, comment, components, description, epic link,
fix version/s, issue type, labels, linked issues, priority, sprints

We can create a sprint to be a container for issues to be worked on

When running a sprint, you're gonna have a scrum board

sprints appear on Active Sprints after you click Start Sprint

Definition of ready = fully defined criteria

Ideally you want 2 sprints of ready work

A burn down chart shows story points vs time, we want story points to be at 0
by the end of the sprint.

The sprint report shows us a summary of the sprint, what work was added and what
work was removed, and what was completed/not completed.

A velocity chart shows how much we completed vs the commitment we had in place.

Release burndown shows a work burndown and the scope of the release. 

A version report shows the velocity of the team and optimistic, pessimistic, and
projected completed dates based on how fast the team works day to day. 

JQL is Jira Query Language, very similar to SQL
uses fields, values, operators and keywords

Dashboards are all about broadcasting what's going on

gadgets help you put some flavor on your dashboard, some visual spice to add to
a dashboard so people viewing at a glance can get a better idea of the report

